Welcome, in this video, we're going to talk about the differences between
tags and releases, and then also create a new release.
I'm currently logged into GitHub, and I'm on the "website" GitHub repository.
Click on the "releases" tab, and by default,
it will land you on the "Releases" tab which, there's also the option for tags.
Now, on first glance, there's not really much of a distinction; we have releases,
and then we have tags, and they both seem to have the same information.
The only difference is that releases is laid out just slightly differently,
but it still just lists our tags that we have available.
We have the option in the tags tab to add release notes,
and release notes is where the distinction, in my mind, comes into play.
So, let's pick on our "v0.3-beta" tag; next to it click on add release notes.
Adding release notes puts us back on the releases tab
on a form that allows us to add release notes to a particular tag in GitHub.
It will allow us to choose another tag if we want to, but I'm going to leave it on this tag.
I'm going to provide a title for my release notes, and then in the
"Describe this release field", I'm going to put the main body of my release notes.
Keep in mind it does support the markdown format,
and you can see here, as I add my notes, that I'm using the markdown syntax.
So, the two hashes mean a second level heading, the three hashes
means a third level heading, asterisks in front of a line will turn into bullets,
and I'm able to reference specific issues and pull requests.
For example "#2" references the pull request 2.
Before I create the release notes, I can preview what I'm doing.
Now scroll down, and since this is a pre-release version,
I'm going to check the check box that says "This is a pre-release".
If this was a production ready release, I would leave that unchecked.
When I get down to the bottom, if I decide that I'm not quite ready to publish this release,
I can save this as a draft, and come back to it later.
However, I'm good with the notes I've left, so let's click on "Publish release".
Great, so now I've created my release notes,
and you can see that I have the title here at the top, who created the release,
how far back from develop it is, and then my release notes in Markdown format.
So now, when we compare the difference between tags and releases,
tags has this simple list of tags. Click on releases;
while I still have references to various tags in the Git repository,
we also have the release notes being listed underneath releases.
If I needed to modify something, I could come over here and click on "Edit",
and that will take me back to the edit form for release notes.
Just added a note using double underscores for bolding.
When I'm happy with my revisions, click on "Update release",
and now we see the modifications that I just made.